h1. Spanish Inquisition

Nobody expects the Spanish Inquisition!

This is a simple and opinionated survey library for Rails. It generates the form using Formtastic, and it does not deal with persistence - the surveys are plain Ruby objects, not ActiveRecord objects. It fulfills our needs at Inspire9 nicely - and perhaps it's what you're looking for too.

h2. Installation

It's a gem - so, like any other gem, add it to your app's Gemfile:

<pre><code>gem 'spanish_inquisition'</code></pre>

And then execute:

<pre><code>$ bundle</code></pre>

Or install it yourself as:

<pre><code>$ gem install spanish_inquisition</code></pre>

h2. Usage

Firstly, you'll want to define your surveys in files within @app/surveys@. Here's a quick example:

<pre><code>SpanishInquisition::Survey.new :inquisition do |survey|
  survey.page do |page|
    page.question :weapon do |question|
      question.text    = 'What is your chief weapon?''
      question.style   = :one
      question.answers = ['fear', 'surprise', 'ruthless efficency']
    end

    page.question :torture do |question|
      question.text    = 'What do you torture with?'
      question.style   = :one
      question.answers = ['The Rack', 'The Cushions', 'The Comfy Chair']
    end
  end

  survey.page do |page|
    page.question :comments do |question|
      question.text     = 'Do you have any suggestions for better torture devices?'
      question.style    = :text
      question.required = false
    end

    page.question :cardinal do |question|
      question.text =  'Who is your favourite Cardinal: Ximinex, Biggles or Fang?'
      question.style = :string
    end
  end
end</code></pre>

Questions are required by default, and currently only three question styles are supported: :string (a standard text field), :text (a multi-line text field, aka the textarea HTML element), and :one (many options, single choice, aka radio inputs). The @answers@ value can be anything that Formtastic accepts as a collection (so both arrays and hashes are valid settings).

Rendering the form is done via a presenter:

<pre><code>survey = SpanishInquisition::Presenter.new :inquisition, params[:survey]</code></pre>

And then, this presenter can be used within a Formtastic-built form in your views:

<pre><code><%= semantic_form_for survey do |form| %>
  <%= survey.render_to form %>
  <%= form.actions do %>
    <%= form.action :submit, :label => 'Save my answers' %>
  <%- end %>
<%- end %></code></pre>

When the form is posted back, you will have to persist the results somewhere - they can be obtained via the @answers@ method on the presenter. It will return a hash with each question's identifier as the keys, and the supplied answers as the values.

There's a few more optoins available with questions, but the source is simple and uncomplicated - I'd recommend reading it.

h2. Contributing

This gem is built using "git-flow":https://github.com/nvie/gitflow - so keep in mind that the master branch is the release branch, develop is work-in-progress, and any in-progress features get their own feature branches.

# Fork it
# Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/name`)
# Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
# Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/name`)
# Create new Pull Request

h2. Licence

Copyright (c) 2013, Spanish Inquisition is developed and maintained by Pat Allan and Inspire9, and is released under the open MIT Licence.
